OCDN — The Economic Speech Layer

PURPOSE: A permanent, economically-ranked knowledge layer where every post
is a Bitcoin transaction, every upvote is real sats, the entire social graph
lives on-chain, and the interface is a replaceable lens over indestructible
data. The protocol is Bitcoin. The product is the index. The website is a
commodity service that takes a flat rake.

---

CORE THESIS

1. Spam is a pricing problem. Bitcoin transaction fees filter infinite noise.
   The fee market itself is the quality signal — high-fee periods select for
   high-conviction content, low-fee periods open the floor.
2. Censorship resistance is maximized by putting data on Bitcoin. Suppression
   requires outbidding, policy capture, or sustained miner-level filtering —
   all expensive, all detectable, none silent.
3. Reading is free; writing costs sats. The cost of writing IS the spam
   filter AND the conviction signal. No separate mechanism needed.
4. The importance index is the product. Total sats committed × citation
   graph position × author reputation. All inputs are on-chain and
   verifiable by anyone.
5. Everything is append-only. Nothing is edited or deleted — ever. Bitcoin
   is the append-only log. Edits are new transactions referencing originals.
6. The interface is a replaceable lens. Whoever controls the data controls
   the platform. Nobody controls Bitcoin. Competing websites index the same
   on-chain data. Corruption of any single interface has zero effect on
   data availability.
7. Identity is application-layer, anchored to Bitcoin keys. Author signatures
   live in the payload, not in Bitcoin's native UTXO signing model. Reputation
   is on-chain history — accumulated earnings, citations received, funding
   given. Sybil cost = cost of building a real economic history over real time.
8. The entire social graph is on Bitcoin. Posts, replies, citations, funding
   events — all transactions. The graph is reconstructable from any archival
   node. No platform owns the graph.

---

INVARIANTS

Hard constraints. Cannot be designed around, only accommodated.

Bitcoin reality:

1.  Throughput is finite and contested.
    Block weight is capped. Every OCDN byte competes with all other Bitcoin
    demand for the same scarce blockspace. The system cannot exceed global
    throughput regardless of design.

2.  Inclusion requires competitive fee bidding.
    A valid transaction can still not be mined — fee too low, policy
    rejection, miner choice, targeted filtering. Liveness is a market,
    not a guarantee.

3.  Mempool policy is not consensus.
    Relay behavior, OP_RETURN limits, script acceptance, minimum feerate —
    all can change via policy flags without a fork. Only consensus rules are
    dependable for long-term liveness.

4.  Finality is probabilistic.
    Reorgs happen. "Published in block N" can be reversed for a window.
    Indexers must handle reorgs, conflicting tips, and ambiguous ordering
    during temporary forks.

5.  On-chain data is permanent, public, and irretractable.
    Every byte in witness or OP_RETURN is globally replicated by archival
    nodes and cannot be corrected. Errors, deanonymization, and regrettable
    content are forever.

6.  Archival is not universal.
    Pruned nodes discard old blocks. Durability means "as long as archival
    nodes exist," not "every node forever."

Architectural consequences:

7.  Authorship is application-layer.
    The Bitcoin tx signer is the UTXO spender. When the portal batches or
    pays fees, the portal is the signer. Author identity must be encoded
    in the payload and verified at the application layer.

8.  Batching requires payload-level identity.
    One tx, one txid, one set of input signers. Per-post authorship,
    reputation, and attribution live inside the batch payload, not in
    Bitcoin's native signature model.

9.  UTXO management is mandatory.
    Content-as-transaction requires: wallet state, UTXO selection, change
    management, fee estimation, RBF/CPFP, dust threshold compliance,
    mempool pinning awareness.

10. Upvote semantics must be explicit.
    A sat transfer is a payment. An upvote requires an unambiguous, parseable
    on-chain marker. Without protocol-defined structure, payments and upvotes
    are indistinguishable.

11. On-chain identity is a public financial graph.
    "Identity is a key" + "earnings are on-chain" = full linkability of
    authorship, funding, and earning history. Privacy is structurally
    compromised unless explicitly addressed.

12. Payload size is linearly coupled to fee.
    There is no discounted text lane. Nontrivial content increases cost
    proportionally. Witness discount (4x) helps but does not eliminate
    the coupling.

Infrastructure consequences:

13. Reconstruction requires infrastructure.
    Parsing blocks, detecting protocol events, maintaining a database,
    handling reorg rewinds, coping with missing historical data if the
    indexer is not archival. Non-optional for any portal.

14. The citation graph will be sparse.
    Fee-gated citations mean most content will have few or none. Graph
    algorithms over sparse data are noisy and gameable.

15. Tx construction is custodial or client-signed.
    If the portal builds transactions for users without them managing
    UTXOs, the portal controls funds (custodial) or requires client-side
    key management (wallet integration). No third option at Bitcoin's
    base layer.

16. Lightning receipt ≠ on-chain publication.
    A Lightning payment confirms payment, not inscription. The on-chain
    pipeline — UTXO management, fee policy, inclusion bidding — is a
    separate system with its own failure modes.

---

TRANSACTION TYPES

Every transaction carries a protocol-defined payload in witness data or
OP_RETURN. The payload includes an author pubkey and an author signature
over the content — this is separate from the Bitcoin-level UTXO signature
and is what establishes authorship when the portal is the UTXO spender.

Post        Taproot tx, text in witness data. Short posts in OP_RETURN
            (~80 bytes). Longer posts in witness (Taproot inscription
            style, ~1-5KB typical). Payload includes: author pubkey,
            author signature, content. The tx fee is the minimum
            economic commitment.

Reply       Taproot tx referencing parent content hash. Text in witness.
            Threads are chains of Bitcoin transactions.

Fund        Tx with OP_RETURN referencing content hash + protocol marker.
            Sats sent to author address = direct payment for valued
            content. Sats burned via OP_RETURN = pure ranking signal.
            Either way, the economic commitment is on-chain. The protocol
            marker disambiguates upvotes from ordinary payments.

Citation    Tx with OP_RETURN: magic + source_hash + relation_type +
            target_hash. Typed link. The citation graph is computable
            from Bitcoin alone (sparse — see invariant 14).

Edit        Tx referencing original content hash with EDIT relation.
            New content in witness. The website decides display (latest
            edit, full history, diff). Both versions permanent on-chain.

---

TEXT-ONLY PROTOCOL

The protocol handles only text. Images, video, documents are pointers —
text posts referencing external hashes. The protocol ranks the pointer;
the bytes live elsewhere (Blossom, IPFS, HTTP, etc.).

Text-only means:
- No blob storage problem. Text payloads are small relative to blockspace.
- Content moderation concerns largely dissolve (text, not binary).
- A million posts < 1 GB of block space.
- Archival nodes store the full history; pruned nodes do not (invariant 6).

---

ROLES

Portal        Clearnet interface. Runs an archival full node. Indexes all
(Website)     protocol-tagged transactions. Builds threading, ranking,
              search. Serves the UI. Takes a flat rake per write. Competes
              on UX and curation, not data control.

              The portal is either custodial (holds UTXOs, constructs and
              signs txs on behalf of users) or requires client-side signing
              (wallet integration). In custodial mode, trust surface is:
              the portal could fail to publish after accepting payment.
              Mitigated by: proof of inclusion after mining, reputation,
              competing portals, and the option to self-publish.

Author        Submits content to the portal (or self-publishes directly).
              Signs the payload with their own key — authorship lives in
              the application-layer signature, not the UTXO spend.
              Earns sats directly from funding txs. On-chain earnings =
              verifiable, publicly linkable reputation (invariant 11).

Funder        Sends sats to content (author address or burn) with protocol
              marker. The act of funding IS the ranking signal. No
              intermediary decides what gets promoted.

Reader        Free access. The website serves content ranked by economic
              commitment. Anyone can run their own indexer against the
              public chain (requires archival node + infrastructure).

---

WEBSITE ECONOMICS (THE FLAT RAKE)

The website provides four things:

1. Transaction construction + UTXO management — users don't run Bitcoin
   Core. Submit text + payment, the portal manages wallet state, fee
   estimation, RBF/CPFP, and broadcast. This is custodial by default
   (the portal holds the publishing UTXOs). Client-side signing via
   wallet integration is the non-custodial alternative.
2. Batching — amortize tx costs across many users. N posts in one Taproot
   tx via Merkle tree in witness data. Each post gets a Merkle proof of
   inclusion. Per-post authorship via payload-level signatures (invariant 8).
3. Indexing — scan the chain for protocol-tagged txs, build thread tree,
   compute rankings, handle reorg rewinds (invariant 4).
4. UX — search, threading, profiles, notifications, the forum interface.

Revenue model:
- Flat rake per post (e.g., 500–2000 sats on top of miner fee)
- Lightning tipping integration (instant micropayments, small cut)
- Fiat on-ramp ("pay $1 to post" — portal handles all Bitcoin)
- Premium features (analytics, API access, notifications) as subscription

Cost math at 1 sat/vbyte (low-fee environment):
  Single post, 1KB:  ~1,250 sats miner fee + 1,000 rake = ~2,250 sats
  Batched, 100/tx:   ~12 sats miner fee + 1,000 rake    = ~1,012 sats
  Batched, 1000/tx:  ~1 sat miner fee + 1,000 rake       = ~1,001 sats

At scale, per-post cost approaches the rake itself. The website earns
margin on volume. Competition keeps the rake honest.

Note: these costs are for a low-fee environment. At 50 sat/vbyte a single
1KB post costs ~62,500 sats in miner fees alone. Fee volatility (invariant
2) means no fixed-cost UX promise is enforceable at protocol level. The
portal can absorb variance, queue during high-fee periods, or pass
through — each is a business decision, not a protocol guarantee.

Trust surface:
- The portal can censor its display (data still on Bitcoin, competitors
  can index it).
- The portal can fail to publish after accepting payment (detectable:
  no Merkle proof of inclusion; mitigated: reputation + competing portals).
- The portal can overcharge (users switch or self-publish).
- The portal can go down (data persists on-chain for anyone to re-index).
- The portal holds publishing UTXOs (custodial risk on the hot wallet,
  not on user content — content already mined is safe).

---

RANKING

Importance = f(total_sats_committed, citation_graph_position,
               author_reputation, time)

All inputs are on-chain:
- Total sats committed = sum of all Fund txs with protocol markers
  referencing the content hash (including the author's original tx fee)
- Citation graph position = authority metric over the on-chain citation
  graph. Graph will be sparse (invariant 14); algorithm must be robust
  to low-density data and funding-based manipulation.
- Author reputation = lifetime on-chain earnings, funding given, citation
  history, key age. Publicly linkable (invariant 11).
- Time = block height of original post (subject to reorg, invariant 4)

Anyone can compute the ranking from an archival node + indexer.
Competing websites can use different ranking algorithms over the same
data. The ranking is the product; the data is a public good.

---

BITCOIN-NATIVE PROPERTIES

Permanence          Archival nodes store the full history. Content durability
                    is a function of the archival node population, not of
                    any single operator. Stronger than any application-layer
                    storage guarantee, but not absolute (invariant 6).

Censorship          Suppression requires outbidding for blockspace inclusion,
resistance          miner-level tx filtering, or mempool policy capture.
                    All costly, all detectable, none silent. Not "impossible"
                    — maximally expensive relative to any known alternative.

Timestamping        Block inclusion IS the timestamp. Priority claims have
                    probabilistic finality — strong after 6+ confirmations,
                    effectively irreversible for practical purposes. Indexers
                    must handle the reorg window (invariant 4).

Identity            Application-layer author signatures over content, anchored
                    to Bitcoin keys. Portable across every portal that indexes
                    the chain. On-chain history accumulates as a public,
                    linkable financial record (invariant 11).

Ordering            Blocks provide total ordering after convergence.
                    During temporary forks, ordering is ambiguous (invariant
                    4). Indexers must handle conflicting tips.

Auditability        All protocol events are on-chain. Every sat committed to
                    every post is publicly verifiable from an archival node.
                    No custodial pools, no opaque systems — except the
                    portal's hot wallet for UTXO management.

---

ADVANCED CAPABILITIES (ALL BITCOIN-NATIVE)

Time-locked         OP_CHECKLOCKTIMEVERIFY / nLockTime. Commit content
content             hash now (proves existence), decryption key in a
                    time-locked tx (becomes spendable at block N).
                    Whistleblower protection, embargoed releases, dead
                    man's switches. No smart contracts, no oracles.

Multisig            M-of-N signatures to publish. Collective authorship
authorship          with cryptographic proof of consent. Editorial boards.
                    Whistleblower corroboration requiring N independent
                    co-signers. All on-chain, all verifiable.

Challenge           Bitcoin outputs locked by hashlock. "Pay N sats to
bounties            anyone who provides content contradicting claim X."
                    The bounty is a UTXO. The claim is the spend. No
                    intermediary adjudicates — the cryptographic
                    condition IS the adjudication.

Encrypted           Encrypt post to recipients' public keys. Ciphertext
content             on-chain (durable, timestamped, censorship-resistant),
                    only intended recipients decrypt. Private messaging
                    with the same durability guarantees as public posts.

Conditional         Taproot script conditions. Content revealed only when
revelation          conditions are met (hashlock, timelock, multisig).
                    Prediction markets as posts. Escrow-gated disclosures.

---

ADVERSARIAL ECONOMICS

Spam attack         Costs real Bitcoin per post. Thousands of spam posts =
                    millions of sats. Cluster of low-reputation keys spending
                    money for zero upvotes. Ranking ignores it automatically.

Censorship          Targeted: miner/pool filtering of specific protocol txs.
attack              Detectable (valid txs not being mined despite adequate
                    fee). Bypassable (different fee levels, different mempools,
                    direct miner submission). Sustained filtering requires
                    majority hashrate cooperation — expensive but not
                    impossible.

Erasure             Requires that all archival nodes discard the data.
attack              Practically very difficult — the Bitcoin archival node
                    population is large, geographically distributed, and
                    independently motivated. Not physically impossible, but
                    as close as any known system gets.

Reputation          Requires spending real sats over real time building
forgery             fake history. Cost scales linearly with the reputation
                    being forged. No shortcut.

Manipulation        Fake upvotes cost real sats. If you spend 1M sats
attack              manipulating rankings, you've paid 1M sats for the
                    privilege. The market decides if the signal is useful.
                    Sparse citation graph (invariant 14) may amplify
                    manipulation via graph-based metrics.

Defense cost is low (data replicated by existing Bitcoin infrastructure).
Attack cost is high and irreversible. The asymmetry is structural, not
policy-based — but not infinite. Every defense has a price at which it
breaks; the claim is that Bitcoin makes that price higher than any
alternative.

---

WHAT THE SYSTEM LOOKS LIKE

A forum where every post is a Bitcoin transaction. Upvotes are real sats
sent to the author or burned as signal. The most funded, most cited, most
reputable content rises to the top. Nothing can be silently deleted —
everything is on archival nodes, append-only. Hateful noise is low-ranked
(nobody funds it). Spam is priced out (every post costs real money).
Important content is permanently inscribed and economically endorsed.

The website is a window into on-chain data. If it disappears, someone
builds another one from an archival node — same data, same content.
The data is a public good. The lens is a competitive market. Bitcoin is
the settlement layer, the evidence archive, and the storage medium.

Authors earn directly from the quality of their ideas. The ranking signal
IS the payment. No ads, no subscriptions, no editorial gatekeepers. The
accumulated economic conviction of every participant, weighted by their
verified on-chain history, determines what matters.

---

STRUCTURAL INCORRUPTIBILITY

Every content platform follows the same arc: launch with free speech
promises, grow, accumulate power over the data, get pressured by
governments/advertisers/ideology, gradually corrupt the editorial function.
The corruption is inevitable because the architecture permits it — whoever
controls the data controls the platform.

The pure Bitcoin model breaks this at the structural level. There is no
data controller to corrupt. The data layer is Bitcoin — no operator, no
board, no terms of service. The interface layer has operators, but they
are commodity services competing on UX over public data. Corruption of
any single interface has zero effect on data availability or integrity.

This is not "we promise not to censor." It is "censorship at the data
layer requires attacking Bitcoin itself, and censorship at the interface
layer is trivially circumventable." The strongest achievable property
given the invariants above.

---

DESIGN CHOICES

Why no relay layer    Bitcoin already solved persistence (for archival nodes).
                      Designing a relay incentive system (pools, bounties,
                      HTLCs) rebuilds a worse version of what Bitcoin provides
                      natively — one that introduces custodial pools, bounty
                      game theory, and relay sybil attacks.

Why no ephemeral      Every post costs real sats. This is a feature. The
tier                  absence of free posting IS the signal. Casual discourse
                      lives on existing platforms. OCDN is the "this matters
                      enough to spend money on" layer.

Why no gradual        Content on Bitcoin is permanent. Ranking provides the
fade                  equivalent effect — underfunded content sinks in the
                      index. The bytes persist, but visibility is proportional
                      to economic commitment.

Why text-only         Text is small, cheap to inscribe, and fits witness data
                      efficiently. Media is pointers to external storage. The
                      protocol ranks the pointer; commodity storage markets
                      handle the bytes.

Why flat rake         Simple, sustainable, competition-driven. The website
                      earns by volume. No complex tokenomics, no custodial
                      pools, no fee curves. Users understand the cost upfront.
                      Competition drives it toward marginal cost.

Why custodial         Non-custodial tx construction requires wallet integration
portal default        on the client. Custodial is the pragmatic default for
                      web UX — the portal holds publishing UTXOs, not user
                      funds. Trust surface is bounded: worst case is
                      non-publication after payment, detectable and
                      reputation-costly. Non-custodial mode via client-side
                      signing is available for users who want it.

---

ENVELOPE FORMAT

OCDN data lives in Bitcoin witness via the same mechanism as Ordinals
inscriptions: an OP_FALSE OP_IF ... OP_ENDIF envelope inside a Taproot
script-path spend. This is not novel — it reuses an encoding with
established miner acceptance, relay propagation, and tooling. The
protocol defines what goes inside the envelope, not the envelope itself.

Bitcoin constraints on the envelope:

- Taproot script-path spends require a commit/reveal transaction pair.
  The commit tx creates a Taproot output whose script tree contains the
  envelope. The reveal tx spends it, placing the script (and data) in
  the witness. Two on-chain transactions per publication event. The
  indexer only parses reveal txs; commit txs are internal plumbing.

- Data pushes within the script are capped at 520 bytes. Larger payloads
  use multiple sequential pushes inside the envelope. Standard practice
  — same as Ordinals inscriptions.

- Witness data gets the 4x weight discount (1 weight unit per byte vs 4
  for non-witness). This is the economic basis for text-in-witness.

- Commit and reveal can be broadcast as a package. Bitcoin Core 28+
  supports 1-parent-1-child package relay. Both propagate together; the
  reveal confirms after the commit is mined.

The portal batches many posts into one commit/reveal pair. Per-post
overhead amortizes across the batch. The commit is the cost center
(creates the Taproot output); the reveal is the data carrier.

The envelope contains a fixed protocol tag that indexers scan for. Its
value is a spec-level decision. The tag must be short (minimize overhead),
unique (avoid collisions with Ordinals "ord" and other protocols), and
permanent (never changes — the version field handles evolution).

Note: the TRANSACTION TYPES section describes short posts in OP_RETURN
(~80 bytes). In practice, per-post protocol overhead (author pubkey +
signature + type/version) approaches or exceeds 80 bytes before any
content. OP_RETURN may remain viable for metadata-only actions (Fund,
Citation) where the payload is compact references and markers. Whether
to support OP_RETURN as an alternative carrier or use witness envelopes
uniformly is an open encoding decision. Uniform witness is simpler for
indexers and safer against relay policy shifts (invariant 3). OP_RETURN
is cheaper for small payloads but adds a second parsing path.

---

CONTENT ADDRESSING

Every protocol action references content by hash. Replies point to a
parent hash. Funds identify a target hash. Citations link source and
target hashes. Edits reference an original hash.

Required properties of the content hash:

  Deterministic.    Computable from the payload alone, before mining.
                    The author (or portal) can compute it at submission
                    time.

  Unique.           Distinct posts produce distinct hashes. Identical
                    text submitted twice by the same author must yield
                    different hashes. This implies a nonce or equivalent
                    uniqueness field in the preimage.

  Author-bound.     The same text from different authors produces
                    different hashes. The author's public key is part
                    of the preimage.

  Tx-independent.   Stable across batching, RBF replacement, and
                    rebroadcast. Cannot depend on txid (txid is unknown
                    at author signing time and shared across a batch).

SHA256 is the hash function. Bitcoin uses it. No reason to introduce
another.

The preimage includes at minimum: author pubkey, a nonce, and the
content bytes. Exact field ordering and serialization are spec-level
decisions. The constraint is the four properties above.

---

AUTHOR IDENTITY

Identity is a secp256k1 public key — specifically, a 32-byte x-only
public key as defined in BIP-340.

BIP-340 Schnorr is the signature scheme. Bitcoin-native (Taproot uses
it at consensus level), well-audited, production library support.
64-byte signatures.

The author signature is application-layer. It lives inside the envelope
payload, separate from the Bitcoin-level UTXO signature (which belongs
to the portal in custodial mode). The author signs the content; the
portal signs the transaction. Both use Schnorr, but over different
messages with different keys.

The signed message must commit to:
- The action type (prevents cross-type replay: a Post signature cannot
  be reused as a Citation).
- The nonce (same nonce as in the content hash).
- The content or reference fields (the substantive payload).

A fixed domain tag in the signed message prevents cross-protocol
signature reuse.

Key = identity. No key rotation mechanism in the initial protocol.
Rotation introduces complexity and an attack surface: a compromised
key could "rotate" the legitimate owner out before they react. An
author who loses a key starts fresh. This is Bitcoin's own model —
private key loss is final. Rotation is a future consideration, not
a launch requirement.

Reputation is the history of a key: posts authored, sats earned,
citations received, funding given, age of first appearance. All
derivable from the chain by any indexer. Sybil cost = cost of
building this history with real sats over real time.

---

IMPLEMENTATION SUBSTRATE

Existing tools and infrastructure. Nothing below is OCDN-specific —
these are commodity components the protocol builds on.

Bitcoin Core         Archival full node. Block data via RPC (getblock
                     verbosity 2+ returns full tx data with witness),
                     mempool monitoring, tx broadcast, fee estimation.
                     REST interface (-rest=1) for block iteration
                     without JSON-RPC overhead. Required: -txindex=1
                     for tx lookup, unpruned for full archival.

bitcoinjs-lib        JS/TS Bitcoin library (v7+). Full Taproot support:
                     script-path spends, PSBT construction, Schnorr
                     keypairs, witness assembly. Tx construction layer
                     for the portal.

@noble/curves        Audited, zero-dependency JS/TS elliptic curve
                     library. BIP-340 Schnorr sign/verify on secp256k1.
                     Handles the application-layer author signatures.
                     Production-grade, peer-reviewed.

@cmdcode/tapscript   TypeScript library for Taproot script and
                     inscription-style witness construction. Zero
                     dependencies. Commit/reveal pipeline, envelope
                     assembly, Taproot address derivation.

ord (reference)      Ordinals reference indexer (Rust, open source).
                     Not used directly — architecture reference for:
                     parsing witness envelopes from raw blocks,
                     handling chain reorgs, maintaining a derived
                     index over protocol-tagged transactions.

ordpool-parser       JS/TS library for detecting inscriptions in
                     Bitcoin transactions. Parsing reference or
                     starting point for OCDN envelope detection.

PostgreSQL           Indexer database. Parsed content, thread trees,
                     citation graph, reputation data, funding totals.
                     Portal-local state derived from the chain —
                     reconstructable from any archival node.

Next.js              Web framework for the portal. Reads from indexer
                     DB, writes to Bitcoin via tx construction pipeline.

Lightning            Payment rail for the portal rake and instant
(LND / CLN / LDK)   funding. User pays invoice → portal queues for
                     on-chain publication. Lightning = UX layer.
                     On-chain tx = protocol layer (invariant 16).

---

PROTOCOL SPECIFICATION (v1 MINIMUM)

Scope. Three transaction types: Post, Reply, Fund. This is the
minimum viable protocol — write text to Bitcoin, thread replies,
fund content. Edit, Citation, and Batch are deferred to future
versions. The type code space accommodates them without breaking
existing indexers.

Low-responsibility defaults (resolved):

  Encoding          Witness envelope for content (Post, Reply).
                    OP_RETURN for metadata (Fund). Content needs
                    witness for space; Fund needs one transaction,
                    not two. The split is pragmatic, not principled.

  Fee volatility    Pass-through. Portal charges rake + estimated
                    fee. Users bear fee-market risk. The portal
                    makes no promises about fee levels.

  Fund economics    Sats sent to author's address. Ranking signal =
                    amount received. Self-funding is visible (same
                    pubkey) and discountable by portal ranking. Burn
                    mechanics deferred.

  Privacy           Public forum, public economics. No mitigations
                    in v1. Invariant 11 accepted.

  Reorg policy      Portal-level. Suggested: display after 1
                    confirmation with visual indicator; treat 6+
                    as settled.

  Citations         Deferred. v1 ranking uses sats committed + time.
                    Type code 0x04 reserved.

  Policy risk       Acknowledged. v1 depends on current Taproot and
                    OP_RETURN relay policies. No fallback.

  Bootstrap         Builders seed content. No incentive mechanism.

---

PROTOCOL CONSTANTS

  Tag               "ocdn" (0x6F 0x63 0x64 0x6E)
  Version           0x01
  Type codes        POST = 0x01, REPLY = 0x02, FUND = 0x03
                    Reserved: CITE = 0x04, EDIT = 0x05, BATCH = 0x06

---

CONTENT HASH

  content_hash = tagged_hash("ocdn/content",
      pubkey || nonce || content)

  tagged_hash(tag, msg) = SHA256(SHA256(tag) || SHA256(tag) || msg)
  per BIP-340's tagged hash construction.

  pubkey:   32-byte x-only author public key
  nonce:    8 bytes, random (generated by author or portal)
  content:  UTF-8 encoded text bytes
  ||:       concatenation

  The content hash is 32 bytes. It is the canonical identifier for a
  piece of content across all protocol actions (replies reference it,
  funds target it).

  Properties satisfied:
  - Deterministic (computable before mining)
  - Unique (random nonce)
  - Author-bound (pubkey in preimage)
  - Tx-independent (no txid dependency)

---

AUTHOR SIGNATURE

  For POST:
    sign_msg = tagged_hash("ocdn/sign",
        version || type || nonce || content)

  For REPLY:
    sign_msg = tagged_hash("ocdn/sign",
        version || type || nonce || parent_hash || content)

  author_sig = BIP340_sign(author_privkey, sign_msg)

  Verification:
    BIP340_verify(author_pubkey, sign_msg, author_sig) → bool

  The signature commits to: version (prevents cross-version replay),
  type (prevents cross-type replay), nonce (uniqueness), and content
  (authenticity). For REPLY, it also commits to parent_hash (binds
  the reply to its thread position).

---

AUTHOR ADDRESS

  Given an author's x-only pubkey P, their receive address for Fund
  payments is: P2TR(P) with no script tree (key-path only).

  This is deterministic — anyone can compute where to send funds for
  any author from their pubkey alone. Standard Taproot key-path
  address derivation (BIP-341, internal key = P, empty Merkle root).

---

WITNESS ENVELOPE (POST, REPLY)

  Follows the Ordinals envelope pattern: OP_FALSE OP_IF ... OP_ENDIF
  inside a Taproot script-path spend script.

  Envelope fields as sequential data pushes:

    "ocdn"              protocol tag, 4 bytes
    <version>           1 byte
    <type>              1 byte (0x01 POST, 0x02 REPLY)
    <nonce>             8 bytes
    <pubkey>            32 bytes, x-only
    <sig>               64 bytes, BIP-340
    <parent_hash>       32 bytes, REPLY only (omitted for POST)
    <content>           variable UTF-8, multiple pushes if >520 bytes

  Each field is a separate OP_PUSH. Fixed-size fields first, variable
  content last. The indexer reads them sequentially; push boundaries
  are field boundaries.

  Overhead per post: 4+1+1+8+32+64 = 110 bytes + content.
  For REPLY: +32 bytes (parent_hash) = 142 bytes + content.

  The envelope lives in a Taproot script-path spend, requiring the
  commit/reveal transaction pair:

    Commit tx     Portal spends an existing UTXO. Creates a P2TR
                  output whose script tree contains the envelope
                  script. Change output back to portal.

    Reveal tx     Spends the commit output via script-path. The
                  witness contains the envelope script + Taproot
                  control block. Change output to portal.

  Content is on-chain when the reveal tx is mined. The commit and
  reveal can be broadcast as a package (Bitcoin Core 28+ 1P1C relay).

---

OP_RETURN MARKER (FUND)

  Single transaction, no commit/reveal.

  Outputs:
    1. OP_RETURN:  "ocdn" || 0x01 || 0x03 || content_hash
                   (4 + 1 + 1 + 32 = 38 bytes)
    2. Payment:    N sats to author's P2TR address
    3. Change:     back to funder (ignored by indexer)

  The indexer reads the OP_RETURN, extracts the target content_hash,
  identifies the output paying the author's known address, and
  records N sats as economic commitment to that content.

  Funder identity is the Bitcoin-level UTXO spender. No application-
  layer funder identity in v1.

  Self-funding: detectable when author's pubkey matches the funding
  tx's input key. Portal ranking can discount or ignore.

---

INDEXER RULES

  For every new block:

  1. Witness scan. For each transaction with a Taproot script-path
     spend, inspect the witness stack for a script containing:
     OP_FALSE OP_IF OP_PUSH "ocdn" ...
     If found: parse envelope fields in order, verify author
     signature, compute content_hash, index the content. For REPLY,
     validate that parent_hash references existing indexed content.

  2. OP_RETURN scan. For each transaction output that is OP_RETURN,
     check if payload begins with "ocdn". If so: parse version and
     type. If FUND (0x03), extract target content_hash. Look up the
     author's P2TR address for that content. Find the output paying
     that address. Record the amount.

  3. Reorg handling. Maintain a chain tip cursor (block hash + height).
     On reorg: rewind index to the fork point, delete all data from
     orphaned blocks, re-process from the new chain. Content that
     appeared in an orphaned block and reappears in the new chain is
     re-indexed normally.

  Invalid envelopes (bad signature, unknown version with same tag,
  malformed fields) are silently ignored. The indexer processes only
  what it can fully validate.

---

COST ESTIMATES (v1, NO BATCHING)

  At 1 sat/vbyte (low-fee environment):

  POST, 500 bytes content:
    Commit tx:  ~150 vbytes                = ~150 sats
    Reveal tx:  ~250 vbytes (110 overhead
                + 500 content, witness      = ~250 sats
                discount applied)
    Miner fees total:                        ~400 sats
    Portal rake:                            ~1,000 sats
    User cost:                              ~1,400 sats

  FUND:
    Single tx: ~120 vbytes                  = ~120 sats
    Portal rake (if facilitated):            ~500 sats
    Funder cost:                        ~620 sats + funded amount

  At 50 sat/vbyte (high-fee):
    POST becomes ~20,000 sats miner fee + rake = ~21,000 sats
    FUND becomes ~6,000 sats miner fee + rake + funded amount

  Batching (future) amortizes commit/reveal across N posts,
  approaching rake-only cost per post at scale.

---

DEFERRED (FUTURE VERSIONS)

  Edit (0x05)         Witness envelope referencing original content
                      hash. Same author (indexer verifies pubkey).
                      Portal decides display: latest edit, full
                      history, diff view.

  Citation (0x04)     Witness or OP_RETURN. Typed link: source_hash +
                      relation_type + target_hash. Relation types
                      (SUPPORTS, CONTRADICTS, EXTENDS) TBD. Sparse
                      graph — ranking must account for this.

  Batch (0x06)        Multiple posts in one commit/reveal. Merkle tree
                      of content hashes in the envelope. Per-post
                      Merkle proof as inclusion receipt. Reduces cost
                      toward rake-only at volume.

  Burn funding        Sats destroyed as pure ranking signal, no author
                      payment. Requires distinguishing burn from
                      transfer in Fund tx structure.

  Key rotation        Signed attestation linking old key to new key.
                      Deferred due to attack surface concerns (see
                      AUTHOR IDENTITY).

  Privacy             Separate posting keys, batch-level unlinkability,
                      or other mitigations for invariant 11.

---

OPEN QUESTIONS (REMAINING)

Most design questions are resolved above. What remains:

1. Commit/reveal pipeline. The two-transaction pattern is structurally
   required. How the portal manages this operationally — pre-funding,
   pipeline depth, failure recovery when a commit confirms but the
   reveal is stuck — is implementation-level but affects UX latency
   and reliability.

2. Content size limits. The protocol imposes none (fee market self-
   regulates). Should the portal impose a soft limit? Long content
   increases reveal tx size and cost linearly. Practical question,
   not protocol question.

3. Nonce generation. Spec says 8 random bytes. Who generates it —
   author (client-side) or portal? In custodial mode the portal can
   generate it. In non-custodial mode the author must. Affects the
   signing flow.

4. Signet/testnet validation. The spec should be validated against
   real Bitcoin transactions before mainnet. Signet is the appropriate
   testbed — realistic mempool behavior, free sats.
